I think Cloud Co-Work is the next
evolution of how we use L&Ms, and I
think we'll see massive adoption in
2026. With Co-work, Cloud can now take
actions on folders on your computer,
connect to your entire software stack,
and start doing day-to-day tasks for
you. So, in this video, I'll show you
how to set it up, how it compares to
Claude and Cloud Code, and how to use it
like a pro with Cloud Skills, which I
think will replace a lot of your
projects, custom GPTs, or even some of
your NAN or automation workflows. I've
been using cloud co-work daily for the
last week and it's already changing how
I work. Now before showing you a demo,
what actually is co-work and how is it
different from cloud and cloud code? Now
cloud and L&M's of course were mostly
still chat limited. Now most people know
co-work for being able to take actions
on folders on your computer, being able
to connect it to your software stack,
but I think the biggest game changer is
being able to build and use skills in
co-work. Now many people have been using
and building skills up until now through
cloud code, but co-work makes this much
more accessible to everyone. I'll
explain in a sec how skills work and
show you some demos and how to set them
up. Um, but it also seems like cloud
co-work has much more of a planning
capability just like uh cloud code has.
So I think in the end we'll see more and
more adoption of co-work for day-to-day
office work or tasks as it will likely
have a superior interface for these
types of tasks and cloud code more for
building production ready applications
and cloud for more brainstorming and
question and answer use cases. So in
this video I'll first cover how uh file
accessing and organizing works then
connectors MCP and browser use then what
I think is the most powerful cloud
skills and use cases and how to set them
up and lastly how do you do code
execution within cloud co-work all right
so what do you need to get started with
co-work first you need a cloud pro team
or enterprise subscription it's not
available on the free tier yet and
second you need a cloud desktop app
co-work doesn't run in the browser yet
so it's desktop only so if you're on a
paid plan and you have updated your
cloud desktop app you should have
co-work available here in the second tab
next to clot code which I'm not going to
cover in this video. Now feature most
people have been talking about which is
cool but I don't think is the biggest
feature of co-work is file accessing or
organizing. So as you can see here I can
basically give it access here to a file
on my computer for example downloads and
now cloth can take actions and read the
files in this folder. For example I can
ask it to organize my download folder.
Claude can you help me organize my
downloads folder?
So you can see it start asking me some
questions first. And this is sort of
that planning capability that comes from
cloth code which I really like. So how
would you like me to organize your files
uh let's say by file type.
So you can see here's what I found in
the folder you selected images documents
videos and now it's creating organized
uh folder structure and putting
everything in the right folders. And you
can see it sort of makes this plan here
and goes through the entire plan step by
step. So, it's now organized my download
folder
as you can see. So, quite a useful
feature, especially if you're
unorganized like I am. Now, of course,
you can also use this for many more use
cases. For example, you can have folders
where you give Claude context on your
business, your ICP, your tone of voice.
So, when you're writing something new,
you can just ask Claude to go through
your specific context without having
that uh all saved into separate
projects. And this becomes especially
powerful with skills, which I'll get to
in a second. But first, let's cover
connections quickly. So, first we have
built-in connections from cloud. So, if
we go here to uh settings in cloud and
you go to connectors, you'll see all the
built-in connectors from uh from cloud.
So, we can just choose one, connect it,
and then we can automatically start
taking action and getting data from all
of these softwares. Now, if your
software is not listed here, you can uh
also add your MCPS, right? That's the
way it connects it to the softwares uh
uh manually. So you can go here to the
developer section. Generally you can
just type in Google for example for your
specific software. Let's say web flow
where my website's built. I can go MCP
cloud right and if it's available it
will pop up in the documentation and
it'll usually give you an instruction on
how to set it up. So in this case I can
go here and it says cloud desktop and it
will give me the step by step on how to
connect my MCP manually with cloud code.
So, I've already done that here in the
developer section. Basically, what you
do is you open the clock desktop
config.json
and then you add whatever is here in the
JSON. You just add that in a file
editor, whatever it is. In my case, it's
an ID. You paste that in. You save the
file and then you have the MCP
connected. So, that that's how you can
do it manually. Now, if the software you
want to connect doesn't have a specific
MCP server yet, there are two other
options. The first one is setting it up
manually through NAND. So in NAD we can
set up our own MCP servers and then
connect it to all the different API
calls or actions we want to take in the
software. So for example here I have a
UniLow LinkedIn server so I can send
messages on LinkedIn and then we connect
this MCP from NAN to claude in order to
take those actions. Now I have a full
video which I'll make sure to link uh
below too on how to set this up. I'll
not cover it in this video. And then the
last option you have is to use cloud
browser use. So instead of actually
connecting it through APIs and MCPS, we
actually just let it use our browser to
access the software. Now how do we use
these connections? We can just tell
Claude, right? So we can say, can you
check what ideas I have in my notion
YouTube tutorial pipeline.
You can see it got the ideas for my
notion pipeline and and I can now of
course start working on the ideas
together with cloud and then update it
directly into notion. And then for
browser use, we can either ask it to use
the browser or generally if we ask it to
access a software it doesn't have a
connection with yet, it generally
triggers the browser automatically. So,
uh we can say something like do research
on X on cloud co-work use cases.
So, you can see it's automatically
starting to use my browser. And the nice
thing is in co-work is that we can also
have this running in the background
while we're working inside of a new
task. So we can work on you know
multiple tasks at the same time and have
these browsers running in the
background. So you can see it starts
looking for cloth co-work. So now it
starts scrolling through and looking for
potential use cases. So it's now listed
out use cases SEO automation document
and data processing knowledge management
etc etc. Now all cool features but you
might have seen this before already. I
think the real power is using these
features together inside of skills. So
what are skills? Now I see skills as the
next evolution of projects or custom
GPTs or system prompts. Skills basically
save a specific instruction or process
and knowledge sources to best execute a
specific task or workflow. You can see
it sort of like a system prompt, but the
difference is you can now trigger
multiple of these skills in the same
context window or task. So, we can
combine these skills to give Clot a lot
more context on how to execute specific
workflows. For example, I can have one
skill helping me go through the process
of packaging a YouTube video idea into a
good title and thumbnail concept with
specific knowledge sources like an
outlier database, instructions for how
to write good titles, and the process to
get to one. And then a second skill
could be uh on writing a good intro with
specific knowledge sources, examples,
and instructions on how to write a good
intro. And I can use all of these skills
in the same context window instead of
jumping between different projects or
system prompts all the time. And it only
uses these knowledge sources and
instruction when the scale is triggered.
So we don't overload the context window
with too much information. We only use
it when necessary. And also because we
can now easily connect cloudco work to
our softwares. We can add in the
instructions when to update or access
data from external softwares. for
example, updating my notion pipeline or
YouTube pipeline automatically after the
title is decided and the intro is
written. So, we can actually start
automating workflows in a sort of
repeatable way. It becomes much more
reliable. And I think this is a superior
setup over projects or custom GPTs or
even over some NAD or automation
workflows. Now, why is that? Because if
you think about it, for many day-to-day
jobs and tasks, we actually need a lot
of human in a loop. Many tasks are very
context dependent, are iterative, and
require a lot of that human in a loop.
For example, like if you create social
media content, YouTube videos, creating
presentations, etc. And having a fully
automated workflow on naden or make.com
can become a little bit rigid for these
types of workflows or require you to hop
between different interfaces all the
time. And on the other hand, of course,
with L&Ms, we have to give it the
context around you, the process, the
tools and knowledge each time you want
to do this process again. So I think
skills can be a great way to automate
some of these iterative context
dependent tasks that do follow specific
context and a specific process. So how
do we use these skills? First of all, we
have the built-in skills from cloud
co-work. Second, we can use skills that
other people have built. And lastly,
which I think is very powerful uh
because most people have unique
workflows is to build your own. So I'm
going to show you an example of each
one. For the built-in skills, you can
just go to uh claude, go to the settings
again, go to capabilities. If you scroll
all the way down, you'll have a tab here
which says example skills. And here are
basically the skills that are built in
from Claude. So we can see we have
Convas design uh MCP builder skills
creator that actually allows us to build
skills ourselves. Uh and the way to
trigger this is by just telling Claude
that you want to use a specific skill,
right? So for example here, please load
the Canva scale. I spelled it wrong, but
it understood and it loaded the scale.
So you can see it's running the scale
and based on the instructions of the
scale, it started asking me some
questions based on the instructions also
created a plan. It went through that
plan and in the end created a website
banner for uh my website. So these are
pre-built instructions that are embedded
into the skill on how to execute a
specific workflow. Now the built-in
skills from cloud are pretty limited and
there are some really good skills being
built by other people. So highly
recommend checking out some of these
marketplaces. There are three main ones
that I found. The first one is
smithy.ai. AI/Skills. You can see we
have 14,500 uh skills that other people
have built. So, hook development here,
um web app testing, uh Excel analysis,
anything you can imagine people have
built skills for. And some of these are
really good. So, highly recommend
checking them out. Um another one is
skillhub.com, right? Again, have
thousands of of skills. And the third
one here is skillsmpp.com.
So, for example, here we have paid ads,
right? Ad copy generator. Now, how do
you use these skills yourself? You
basically go here and you download the
zip file, right? You save that. Then you
go back to cloth code. You go back to
the settings to the capabilities. And if
you scroll down, you'll have here an
option of add.
We then get three options, right? We can
create it with cloth, build it
ourselves, or upload a skill. I'm going
to show you the other ones in a second,
but in this case, we're going to upload
it. So, we just upload this the zip
file,
and now we have the skill uploaded. If I
now go to a new task and I say for
example um I want to write some uh meta
ad. Can you use the skill to write these
ads?
Now of course the skill doesn't have any
context on me. So I'll give it a little
bit more context on my business by just
adding another file uh around my
business.
For example, I can give it access to my
ICP
uh my voice personality and what we do.
I added some context around me and my
business.
So you can see I invoke the ad copy
generator skill and read your business
context. So it is invoked the skill
and these instructions on what questions
to ask already embedded into that skill.
So in this case what's the primary goal
of the meta ads? Let's say lead
generation. Uh what audience
uh let's say freelancers solrepreneurs.
How many ad variations? Let's say five.
what offer
um let's say paid program enrollment. So
you can see this progress again is
loaded from the scale right the plan of
what it should do.
So now it's created meta ad variations
as you can see this is pretty
comprehensive. We have five variations
here directly in a word document uh with
the primary text, full primary text,
headline, description and CTA. And all
of these instructions of creating this
word document to create copies for all
these specific things in meta ads are of
course out of the specific scale. Now,
of course, I could could have given it a
bit more context around my business. It
would probably result in better ads, but
this is pretty impressive as you can
see. And what I can do right now, which
gets me to the third point of building
your own skills, is for example, adapt
this original skill together with some
of my context knowledge sources and
create my own skill. So I can literally
just tell Claude,
use this skill combined with my specific
knowledge sources to create a new skill
that helps me create ads.
So you can see now it's created an
entirely new skill based on the other
skill together with my specific context.
Now the second way to create your own
skills which I think is the most
powerful and I highly recommend
exploring because this will really
change the way you work. So what we're
doing is we're basically walking through
one of your tasks your daily tasks or
processes uh together with Claude once
manually and after you've done it
manually you save it as a skill so next
time you can repeat it. So for in this
case for example I'm repurposing one of
my latest YouTube videos into a
newsletter. Now generally what I do is I
uh use a YouTube transcription tool on
the internet to get my transcript and
then based on that I go through the
process of writing my newsletter which
is first writing the subject line the
hook and then the newsletter. So I just
go through the entire process one by one
with claude once. So for example here I
said first step I want you to do is use
this you YouTube link to go to the page
below to download the entire YouTube
transcript so you have context on what
this video is about. Uh so basically I
shared it a link where I can download
the YouTube transcript. Now, in reality,
you can probably better do this with an
MCP or uh API, but I just want to show
you this because you can literally
instruct it to go to any website that
doesn't have an MCP or anything yet and
just tell it what to do, which can then
be saved later and can then be
replicated for anytime in the future you
want to do this same task again. It took
my YouTube link, went to the website
together with a cloud browser, and it
downloaded the entire YouTube transcript
as you can see here. Then it saved that
in a file. Then I shared it another
prompt. I'm going to repurpose this for
my newsletter. I've given you access to
context around my business, my CP, my
voice personality, my newsletter
strategy, and newsletter examples. Based
on all of these, I want you to write a
newsletter according to my exact tone of
voice, almost mimicking uh my tone of
voice from the examples. I don't want
you to write a newsletter straight away.
We're going to do this uh step by step.
I first want you to give suggestions on
potential subject lines. You give me
five to 10 suggestions and then the
second step is to find a hook. Once we
have that locked in, we write the actual
newsletter. This is generally how I like
to work with L&Ms. wanted my L&M to give
me suggestions instead of coming with
oneoff um ideas and I go through the
process step by step by picking
suggestions or changing suggestions
slightly. Now in this case I had all
these documents already or what we do my
ICP my voice personality newsletter
strategy and newsletter examples but of
course you can also walk through this
manually once together with claude and
once you create the scale it will create
these files automatically so the next
times you don't have to redo this again.
So based on that it started it gave me
subject line options I chose the one I
like most then hook options I chose the
one I like most and then write wrote the
full newsletter. Now normally I would
make this process a little bit longer
but it's just for the example here. And
then at the end I just asked it to
create a skill out of this process. I
save that and now if I do this task
again and share a YouTube link and say
let's repurpose this YouTube link for a
newsletter
it will start following this exact
process that we've done before. So you
can see it loaded the skill. So now it
already knows what to do. It will first
have to go to that tool to download the
YouTube transcript.
So you can see it's using the browser to
do this.
So now it's gotten the transcript and
now you can see it's already doing the
next step which is reading my uh voice
guide, my newsletter patterns, right?
And you can see it follows that same
process that I instructed it before
which is first it gives me subject line
options. All right, let's say two.
Then it gives me hook options.
Let's say number two.
And now it's writing the entire
newsletter in my tone of voice. If you
know my style, you can see that it's
following it. Now anyway, the point of
all of this, you can basically start
automating any task you do on a
day-to-day basis across any software
you're using uh just by creating a scale
out of it. So I think this is going to
be really powerful and it's really going
to change the way we work because if you
think about it for many tasks we do on a
day-to-day basis having claude as your
main interface can be far superior first
of all because it can execute but also
because you can uh iterate and improve
your workflows and what you're doing
together with an L&M like claude and
then another way to create skills fast
which I've been using a lot is to create
them out of your old uh cloud project or
chatbt custom GPTs etc. I used to have a
lot of uh these custom projects for
example for my YouTube packaging uh
which have a system prompt on
specifically how to do this process of
you know from a video idea get to
YouTube titles and potential YouTube
thumbnail and the these also have
specific guides and knowledge sources
like a YouTube outlier sheet etc. Right?
So basically what I do is I um copy and
paste that system prompt and I add some
of those knowledge sources for that
specific uh project and then I ask clot
to create a scale out of it. So hey
Claude, can you help me um create a
scale
um that helps me with my YouTube
packaging? Now this scale is going to be
based on uh previous project I used. I'm
going to share the system prompt from
the previous project so you understand
how this process should be executed in
the skill and I'm going to share you all
the knowledge sources that should be
used when executing this process.
So I just give it the system prompt
and I'll share the specific
um knowledge sources that I want. So in
this case, my community ICP, maybe my
personal background, uh a title bank,
and a YouTube outlier sheet. So I can
give that all and then just let Claude
build a skill out of this. And in my
experience, this has been really
efficient because now I've built a lot
of these skills out of my old projects
and now I can just use these skills
inside of the same context window. So I
don't have to hop between different
projects all the time. So now created
the entire skill. I can just click here
on the skill and opening cloud. And then
you see that it created the skill MD and
reference files, right? We can add that
to the library.
And now we have the skills inside the
skill inside of our library. And now we
can just try it out.
Uh, can you use the YouTube packaging
skill to help me ideate on my new title
and thumbnail for my new video?
You can see it's now loaded the skill.
It's reading all the files
and this is exactly the instructions for
my system prompt. I don't want it to
suggest ideas right away, right? To help
you get what's the core idea inside or
topic of the video. So, I have to fill
out and go through this step-by-step
process before it actually puts out
suggestions for titles and thumbnails.
So, I'm not going to walk you through
the entire process, but it basically
replicated this. And it's going to use
these knowledge sources in each of the
phases or steps. And in my experience,
this is working far better than true
system prompt or project. So, highly
recommend playing around with this and
trying it for your own workflows because
now I can also add in that it has to
update, for example, my notion
automatically at the end. I can update
the scale whenever I want. So, I can
make them bigger and bigger, automate
more and more of the the workflow. I can
combine different skills in this same
context window. So, it can become really
powerful. And I think a lot of our
day-to-day work can be done a lot faster
if we get good at building skills. Now
one more thing I want to show you is we
also have code execution now in cloud
code work. Uh now this is different from
cloud code. Think of cloud code more as
building applications. In coowork we can
use code to do specific tasks for us.
For example, we can use code to
visualize data. I can say for example um
look at the outlier database sheet and
create some graphs out of the data in
there.
So we can use it for data visualization.
And we can we can use code for basic
formatting of images for example inside
of our folders um to change the aspect
ratio and things like this. So we can do
basic code execution to include co work.
So it's now finished. So you can see it
now sheet. Of course I didn't give it
specific instruction but it does this
through code execution. Anyway that's it
for this video. If you want to dive a
little bit deeper into these topics and
these tools you can also check out my AI
accelerator uh where we offer one-on-one
tech help to help you out with any
issues. We have weekly workshops on the
newest tools. the tools that actually
matter and we try to help you uh build
and set up your own AI business. Uh so
if that's interesting to you, you can
check it out in the link in the
description. Also, if you enjoyed this
video, highly appreciate a like and a
subscribe. Uh thank you so much and I
hope to see you in the next one. Bye.